So far, the classification examples
we've talked about have used
binary classification,
where you had two possible labels, 0 or 1.
Is it a cat, is it not a cat?
What if we have multiple possible classes?
There's a generalization of logistic
regression called Softmax regression.
The less you make predictions where
you're trying to recognize one of C or
one of multiple classes,
rather than just recognize two classes.
Let's take a look.
Let's say that instead of just recognizing
cats you want to recognize cats, dogs, and
baby chicks.
So I'm going to call cats class 1,
dogs class 2, baby chicks class 3.
And if none of the above,
then there's an other or
a none of the above class,
which I'm going to call class 0.
So here's an example of the images and
the classes they belong to.
That's a picture of a baby chick,
so the class is 3.
Cats is class 1, dog is class 2,
I guess that's a koala, so
that's none of the above, so
that is class 0, class 3 and so on.
So the notation we're going to use is,
I'm going to use capital C to
denote the number of classes you're
trying to categorize your inputs into.
And in this case, you have four possible
classes, including the other or
the none of the above class.
So when you have four classes,
the numbers indexing
your classes would be 0
through capital C minus one.
So in other words, that would be zero,
one, two or three.
In this case, we're going to build a new
XY, where the upper layer has four,
or in this case the variable
capital alphabet C upward units.
So N, the number of units upper layer
which is layer L is going to equal to 4 or
in general this is going to equal to C.
And what we want is for the number
of units in the upper layer to tell
us what is the probability of
each of these four classes.
So the first node here is
supposed to output, or
we want it to output the probability
that is the other class,
given the input x, this will
output probability there's a cat.
Give an x,
this will output probability as a dog.
that will output the probability.
I'm just going to abbreviate baby
chick to baby C, given the input x.
So here, the output labels y hat is going
to be a four by one dimensional vector,
because it now has to output four numbers,
giving you these four probabilities.
And because probabilities should sum to
one, the four numbers in the output y hat,
they should sum to one.
The standard model for getting your
network to do this uses what's called
a Softmax layer, and the output layer
in order to generate these outputs.
Then write down the map,
then you can come back and
get some intuition about what
the Softmax there is doing.
So in the final layer
of the neural network,
you are going to compute as usual
the linear part of the layers.
So z, capital L, that's the z variable for
the final layer.
So remember this is layer capital L.
So as usual you compute that
as wL times the activation of
the previous layer plus the biases for
that final layer.
Now having computer z,
you now need to apply what's called
the Softmax activation function.
So that activation function is a bit
unusual for the Softmax layer, but
this is what it does.
First, we're going to computes
a temporary variable,
which we're going to call t,
which is e to the z L.
So this is a part element-wise.
So zL here, in our example,
zL is going to be four by one.
This is a four dimensional vector.
So t Itself e to the zL,
that's an element wise exponentiation.
T will also be a 4.1 dimensional vector.
Then the output aL,
is going to be basically the vector
t will normalized to sum to 1.
So aL is going to be e to the zL divided
by sum from J equal 1 through 4,
because we have four
classes of t substitute i.
So in other words we're saying that
aL is also a four by one vector,
and the i element of this
four dimensional vector.
Let's write that, aL substitute i that's
going to be equal to ti over sum of ti,
okay?
In case this math isn't clear,
we'll do an example in a minute
that will make this clearer.
So in case this math isn't clear,
let's go through a specific example
that will make this clearer.
Let's say that your computer zL, and
zL is a four dimensional vector,
let's say is 5, 2, -1, 3.
What we're going to do is use this
element-wise exponentiation to
compute this vector t.
So t is going to be e to the 5,
e to the 2, e to the -1, e to the 3.
And if you plug that in the calculator,
these are the values you get.
E to the 5 is 1484,
e squared is about 7.4,
e to the -1 is 0.4, and e cubed is 20.1.
And so, the way we go from the vector
t to the vector aL is just
to normalize these entries to sum to one.
So if you sum up the elements of t,
if you just add up those
4 numbers you get 176.3.
So finally,
aL is just going to be this vector t,
as a vector, divided by 176.3.
So for example, this first node here,
this will output e to
the 5 divided by 176.3.
And that turns out to be 0.842.
So saying that, for this image,
if this is the value of z you get,
the chance of it being
called zero is 84.2%.
And then the next nodes
outputs e squared over 176.3,
that turns out to be 0.042,
so this is 4.2% chance.
The next one is e to -1 over that,
which is 0.042.
And the final one is e cubed over that,
which is 0.114.
So it is 11.4% chance that
this is class number three,
which is the baby C class, right?
So there's a chance of it being class
zero, class one, class two, class three.
So the output of the neural network aL,
this is also y hat.
This is a 4 by 1 vector where the elements
of this 4 by 1 vector are going
to be these four numbers.
Then we just compute it.
So this algorithm takes the vector zL and
is four probabilities that sum to 1.
And if we summarize what we
just did to math from zL to aL,
this whole computation
confusing exponentiation to
get this temporary variable t and
then normalizing,
we can summarize this into
a Softmax activation function and
say aL equals the activation
function g applied to the vector zL.
The unusual thing about this
particular activation function is that,
this activation function g,
it takes a input a 4 by 1 vector and
it outputs a 4 by 1 vector.
So previously, our activation functions
used to take in a single row value input.
So for example, the sigmoid and
the value activation functions input
the real number and output a real number.
The unusual thing about the Softmax
activation function is,
because it needs to normalized across
the different possible outputs,
and needs to take a vector and
puts in outputs of vector.
So one of the things that a Softmax
cross layer can represent,
I'm going to show you some examples
where you have inputs x1, x2.
And these feed directly to
a Softmax layer that has three or
four, or
more output nodes that then output y hat.
So I'm going to show you a new
network with no hidden layer,
and all it does is compute z1
equals w1 times the input x plus b.
And then the output a1, or
y hat is just the Softmax
activation function applied to z1.
So in this neural network
with no hidden layers,
it should give you a sense of the types of
things a Softmax function can represent.
So here's one example with
just raw inputs x1 and x2.
A Softmax layer with C equals
3 upper classes can represent
this type of decision boundaries.
Notice this kind of several
linear decision boundaries,
but this allows it to separate
out the data into three classes.
And in this diagram, what we did
was we actually took the training
set that's kind of shown
in this figure and
train the Softmax cross fire with
the upper labels on the data.
And then the color on
this plot shows fresh
holding the upward of the Softmax
cross fire, and coloring in the input
base on which one of the three
outputs have the highest probability.
So we can maybe we kind of see that this
is like a generalization of logistic
regression with sort of linear
decision boundaries, but
with more than two classes [INAUDIBLE]
class 0, 1, the class could be 0, 1, or 2.
Here's another example of the decision
boundary that a Softmax cross fire
represents when three normal
datasets with three classes.
And here's another one, rIght, so
this is a, but one intuition is
that the decision boundary between
any two classes will be more linear.
That's why you see for example that
decision boundary between the yellow and
the various classes, that's the linear
boundary where the purple and red
linear in boundary between the purple and
yellow and other linear decision boundary.
But able to use these
different linear functions
in order to separate
the space into three classes.
Let's look at some examples
with more classes.
So it's an example with C equals 4, so
that the green class and Softmax can
continue to represent these types
of linear decision boundaries
between multiple classes.
So here's one more example
with C equals 5 classes, and
here's one last example with C equals 6.
So this shows the type of things the
Softmax crossfire can do when there is no
hidden layer of class,
even much deeper neural network with x and
then some hidden units, and
then more hidden units, and so on.
Then you can learn even more complex
non-linear decision boundaries to separate
out multiple different classes.
So I hope this gives you a sense
of what a Softmax layer or
the Softmax activation function
in the neural network can do.
In the next video,
let's take a look at how you can train a
neural network that uses a Softmax layer.